Back when I was working on the dissertation that the book grew out of, I wanted to try to get a sense of the demographics of NAM membership and to track their connections to Congressmen and other influential people. But doing that for the whole membership, which was some 2000+ in the 1900s, wasn't really feasible, and anyway I wasn't interested in just any member, I was interested in the ones who were active, especially when it comes to politics. So instead of taking the membership directory (American Trade Index), I went with writing down names from correspondence. It so happens that a lot of the NAM's early correspondence got printed as an appendix to Congressional hearings on lobbying in 1913 (the Congress was investigating whether the NAM, and memebrs of Congress, had done something less than legal). So I saved that PDF and slogged through it and wrote down names. I went through several times and gave each member an "active" number measuring how often and in what kinds of ways they appeared in the correspondence; this was admittedly less than scientifically determined, but fairly reasonable. Then I did a lot of searches in Google Books, newspapers, and similar resources; in the early twentieth century writing local histories with biographical snippets was a veritable cottage industry, so it was actually possible to find out a fair bit about a fair number of these individuals. To store the info, I used OpenOffice Base, which is a database program; I knew SQL so I figured that would be handy. 

I would do all that rather differently now; I'd be more methodical, for one, and I certainly wouldn't use something like Base (or Microsoft Access, which is better known). The whole thing ended up rather ad hoc and messy, and now the original database is corrupted and I can't open it. But on the whole, it did end up being a reasonably useful tool, and even if the sample of NAM members is by no means objectively perfect, I do think it's defensible and informative. 

The `nampeople.xlsx` file has a database dump that I created at some point when the database was beginning to behave in flaky ways. It has several sheets: one for NAM, one for NCF, one for Congress, one for Others (other contacts that seemed important), and one called "contact table" that shows the links between the individuals in different categories (this just uses of ID numbers so it isn't that informative to read, but could of course be used to make e.g. a social network edge list). The "active" number, as you'll see, varies between 1 and 10, but I didn't actually make any use of the upper ranges of that since I decided that it was rather too ad hoc - I just used a two-tier system with ignoring the 1s, using everyone with 2 and over for some things like maps, and mostly focusing on the 3 and over.

The `nampeople-db.pdf` file is extracted from my dissertation and explains more about the construction of the sample and the sources. 

The two images in the book on links between NAM and Congressmen are based on this database; they were made with Cytoscape, but the edge lists were made entirely manually -- that is, I selected the Congressmen and NAM members specifically rather than feeding some mass of data into Cytoscape. The images in the book are the same as the ones in the dissertation, only redesigned.

The heatmap of active NAM members in the book also draws on the membership (it has everyone with a 2 and over active score).
